so our s list class now has these new
fancy method size and add last but
there's some issues both of them are
pretty slow and we're gonna focus on the
size method in this particular lecture
and discuss how to make it more
efficient so how slow is size well to
maybe bring this to the form and make
you think about it in the following way
let's suppose size takes two seconds to
process a list of size 1,000 it is size
which steps to the list one item at a
time until it finally reaches the end is
gonna take a thousand seconds
now you don't really know exactly how
computer works but just using your
intuition how long do you think it will
take on a list of size and milli
it so ponder that for a moment so I say
the answer is two thousand seconds and
if I have a list that's 1,000 times as
large then whatever the computer is
doing inside and is to step through the
list it's gonna have to do that 1,000
times as many times so it should take
1000 times as many seconds first total
of two thousand so the more interesting
question is how do we fix it and so I'm
gonna leave this as a puzzle for you
that I'd really like you to ponder to
figure out a way to make size really
fast no matter how big the list is I
don't care there's a billion items I
want it quick so think about how you
might do that and I'll wait here
patiently okay so what I propose is that
we instead of calculating the size on
the fly every time size is called which
could take a long time
we're gonna set aside some information
about the size up front so I'm gonna
have private int size and that's gonna
represent the current amount of
information in the data structure so
what's the size of a s list of one item
one what should I do whenever I add an
item to the which change about the size
size plus equals one what if I get first
to the size change nope add last indeed
we will add one to the science
doesn't matter where so that is all we
need for the size to be updated and so
now we come to the size method
well now rather than calculate I'm gonna
delete all this beautiful code we just
spent so much effort discussing this
business code that speaks the secret
language of the Gods is gonna be buried
beneath the earth and if then we're
gonna return sighs it's pretty typical
right like when you write a book of
arcane evil from ancient gods or
whatever usually once you're done with
it you discard it to be discovered later
at some day to destroy civilization so
we'll just say that's what we're doing
but we'll find that in later parts of
this class and in the projects you will
actually be using that pattern of having
the secret language of the gods but here
it's actually easier for us to just
compute the size upfront and return it
whenever we're ready for it so now when
we print out the size we still get four
but it doesn't matter how big the list
is this will be very fast we did it okay
so did it brief basically what we just
did is we maintained a special size
variable that caches the size of the
list so anytime when the size the list
changes changes we update it and caching
is just a fancy term for putting aside
some data to speed up retrieval at some
later date it is redundant but it also
speeds us up now it doesn't come for
free there's this old saying that there
ain't no such thing as a free lunch we
did have to do some work what we changed
is that every time the size of the list
is modified we have to tweak the size a
little bit but it doesn't really have a
meaningful an impact on our performance
and for any practical circumstance that
I can imagine spreading that work of
calculating the size over each ad called
to me is a net win in almost any case I
can even imagine
let's look at a visual that compares our
naked recursive data structure with our
s list in the context of caching so
before we said s lists have this nice
advantage that whenever you want to
manipulate the data or see the data you
have to go through this middleman this
middleman provides you with very easy to
understand methods that are guaranteed
safe and avoid you from shooting
yourself in the foot in various ways now
another nice advantage of the
guest list structure to have this
middleman is that it serves as a natural
place to store meta information about
the entire list so for example we can
store the size of the list here it is
technically redundant you can compute
the size without this variable but it
speeds up the computation of size
because you just need to return this
value you could also store other things
here right like you could still like the
maximum or the minimum or the largest
value that was ever put in there and
those would also work by contrast with a
naked recursive list it's not so easy
you could in principle do something like
cache the size inside of each node but
even then that means that anytime you
change something in the list you have to
update update a bunch of size variables
you could also for example somehow if
you had a language it allows it bind a
variable up here that tracks the size
and the whole thing but in Java there's
no natural facility to do that so in
effect what you'll end up doing is
having multiple variables that you have
to keep straight here this
object-oriented programming approach
means that we'd let the object control
everything we tell the object your job
is do not only do all of these tasks but
also track the size for me and in that
way it's just a natural way to organize
our code so again the int list can do
all the stuff that an S list can do but
an S list is going to be a more natural
approach in nearly every way